# Customer Churn Prediction

Telephone service companies, Internet service providers, pay TV companies, insurance firms, and alarm monitoring services, often use customer attrition analysis and customer attrition rates as one of their key business metrics because the cost of retaining an existing customer is far less than acquiring a new one. Companies from these sectors often have customer service branches which attempt to win back defecting clients, because recovered long-term customers can be worth much more to a company than newly recruited clients. Companies usually make a distinction between voluntary churn and involuntary churn. Voluntary churn occurs due to a decision by the customer to switch to another company or service provider, involuntary churn occurs due to circumstances such as a customer's relocation to a long-term care facility, death, or the relocation to a distant location. In most applications, involuntary reasons for churn are excluded from the analytical models. Analysts tend to concentrate on voluntary churn, because it typically occurs due to factors of the company-customer relationship which companies control, such as how billing interactions are handled or how after-sales help is provided.

Customer churn, also known as customer retention, customer turnover, or customer defection, is the loss of clients or customers. Predictive analytics use churn prediction models that predict customer churn by assessing their propensity of risk to churn. Since these models generate a small prioritized list of potential defectors, they are effective at focusing customer retention marketing programs on the subset of the customer base who are most vulnerable to churn.

**Telecom Case Study: Description:**
This case study is about a telecom company. Data analytics can help this company to make smarter decisions that lead to higher productivity and more efficient operations. One of the key parameters that should be checked for this company is churn rate. Churn, often known as “churn rate,” is the measurement of the number of subscription customers who have cancelled their subscription over a set period of time.

Generally, churn rate, sometimes known as attrition rate in business, is the rate at which customers stop doing business with a company over a given period of time. Churn rate is the percentage of subscribers to a service that discontinue their subscription to that service in each period. In order for a company to expand its clientele, its growth rate (i.e. its number of new customers) must exceed its churn rate. The first way to reduce the churn rate and consequently improve business retention is to make the most effective use of a telco's internal data. All this data allows telecom companies to know customers better–to the point where they can collect them into precise and consistent segments. In this case study, with some variables we need to show whether a particular customer will switch to another telecom provider or not. In telecom terminology, this is referred to as churning and not churning, respectively. 
